# cs-340-portfolio
For writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable, I always read the requirements first. Then I write down my thoughts about the requirements, and my projected approach. I write out potential solutions. From that I get a fresh mindset to read the code presented to me on hand. I understand the code, and really analyze it to see why it is structured the way it is. Then, I refer back to the requirements and my notes, writing the pseudocode for the solution. Anywhere I get stuck, I commit research on the methods I'm using or developing. For the CRUD Python module, I looked up examples of CRUD modules in MongoDB-Python databases and adapted those examples to my use case. Working this way allows me to think clearly through the problem, and to develop a toolset to tackle it. It was quite advantageous to use my own CRUD module when developing the dashboard widgets. I had access to each method, so if one widget wasn't working as intended, I could go back to basics and see if the module needed adjusting. Because I wrote the module, I understood it, so debugging issues with the dashboard was much easier than going in with an unfamiliar CRUD module. Writing it really allowed me to understand how CRUD operations worked, so I worked through the dashboard project with grace. 
Approaching this project was quite different from previous courses. Previous courses had us developing one program and that was it. This project was unique in that we developed one project, which then intertwined with our second project. So we were working with two bundles of code, and we had to understand how they worked with each other. It was more of an interlaced approach, and I had to think outside of the box, and consider all possibilities when troubleshooting during development. I would definitely continue to refer to technical documentation in future database creation requests. It is key to understand the database structure you are working with. It is also important to read technical documentation for the language you are driving the database with, should you be developing an application for it. 
Computer scientists solve problems. They use their minds, and their mental toolboxes to do this. This matters because our world is full of problems that are begging for solutions. It allows our world to move forward. In business, health, retail - problems are going to exist, because systems permeate the stability of these factions of life. So computer scientists are significant, and they matter quite a bit. 
A dashboard project like this would help companies like Grazioso Salvare do their work better, simply because it is a friendly user interface. Using a dashboard to filter through queries, or simply clicking a button with ease to see specific types of rescue dogs, is much better than mashing database queries in a console. Leave the coding and technical work to computer scientists, and they can develop ease of access for companies. Thanks to this project, I now understand the backend of client side applications much better. It will serve me well in my future work where I continue to develop for users.
